allow\_comments  
False

# C#/.NET

C# is a high-level programming language developed by Microsoft. Godot
supports C# as an option for a scripting language, alongside Godot's own
`GDScript<toc-learn-scripting-gdscript>`.

The standard Godot executable does not contain C# support out of the
box. Instead, to enable C# support for your project you need to
[download a .NET version](https://godotengine.org/download/) of the
editor from the Godot website.

c\_sharp\_basics c\_sharp\_features c\_sharp\_style\_guide
diagnostics/index

## Godot API for C#

As a general purpose game engine Godot offers some high-level features
as a part of its API. Articles below explain how these features
integrate into C# and how C# API may be different from GDScript.

c\_sharp\_differences c\_sharp\_collections c\_sharp\_variant
c\_sharp\_signals c\_sharp\_exports c\_sharp\_global\_classes

## C# platform support

As of Godot 4.2 projects written in C# support all desktop platforms
(Windows, Linux, and macOS), as well as Android and iOS.

Android support is currently experimental and has a few limitations.

-   Projects targeting Android need to target .NET 7.0 or higher. This
    requires modifying the <span class="title-ref">.csproj</span> file
    generated by Godot for existing projects. The following property is
    added to new projects created with 4.2 and can be added to existing
    projects:

        <TargetFramework Condition=" '$(GodotTargetPlatform)' == 'android' ">net7.0</TargetFramework>

-   Only some Android architectures are supported: `arm64` and `x64`.

iOS support is currently experimental and has a few limitations.

-   Projects targeting iOS need to target .NET 8.0 or higher. This
    requires modifying the <span class="title-ref">.csproj</span> file
    generated by Godot for existing projects. The following property is
    added to new projects created with 4.2 and can be added to existing
    projects:

        <TargetFramework Condition=" '$(GodotTargetPlatform)' == 'ios' ">net8.0</TargetFramework>

-   The official export templates for the iOS simulator only supports
    the `x64` architecture.

-   Exporting to iOS can only be done from a MacOS device.

Currently, projects written in C# cannot be exported to the web
platform. To use C# on that platform, consider Godot 3 instead.
