allow\_comments  
False

# Godot Docs â€“ *master* branch

Welcome to the official documentation of [Godot
Engine](https://godotengine.org), the free and open source
community-driven 2D and 3D game engine! If you are new to this
documentation, we recommend that you read the
`introduction page <doc_about_intro>` to get an overview of what this
documentation has to offer.

The table of contents in the sidebar should let you easily access the
documentation for your topic of interest. You can also use the search
function in the top-left corner.

## Get involved

Godot Engine is an open source project developed by a community of
volunteers. The documentation team can always use your feedback and help
to improve the tutorials and class reference. If you don't understand
something, or cannot find what you are looking for in the docs, help us
make the documentation better by letting us know!

Submit an issue or pull request on the [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues), or talk
to us on the `#documentation` channel on the [Godot Contributors
Chat](https://chat.godotengine.org/)!

## Offline documentation

To browse the documentation offline, you can download an HTML copy
(updated every Monday):
[stable](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-html-stable.zip),
[latest](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-html-master.zip),
[3.6](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-html-3.6.zip).
Extract the ZIP archive then open the top-level `index.html` in a web
browser.

For mobile devices or e-readers, you can also download an ePub copy
(updated every Monday):
[stable](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-epub-stable.zip),
[latest](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-epub-master.zip),
[3.6](https://nightly.link/godotengine/godot-docs/workflows/build_offline_docs/master/godot-docs-epub-3.6.zip).
Extract the ZIP archive then open the `GodotEngine.epub` file in an
e-book reader application.

about/introduction about/list\_of\_features about/system\_requirements
about/faq about/complying\_with\_licenses about/release\_policy
about/docs\_changelog

getting\_started/introduction/index
getting\_started/step\_by\_step/index
getting\_started/first\_2d\_game/index
getting\_started/first\_3d\_game/index

tutorials/best\_practices/index tutorials/troubleshooting
tutorials/editor/index tutorials/migrating/index

tutorials/2d/index tutorials/3d/index tutorials/animation/index
tutorials/assets\_pipeline/index tutorials/audio/index
tutorials/export/index tutorials/io/index tutorials/i18n/index
tutorials/inputs/index tutorials/math/index tutorials/navigation/index
tutorials/networking/index tutorials/performance/index
tutorials/physics/index tutorials/platform/index tutorials/plugins/index
tutorials/rendering/index tutorials/scripting/index
tutorials/shaders/index tutorials/ui/index tutorials/xr/index

contributing/how\_to\_contribute contributing/workflow/index
contributing/development/index contributing/documentation/index

community/asset\_library/index community/channels community/tutorials

classes/index
