github\_url  
hide

# VehicleBody3D

**Inherits:** `RigidBody3D<class_RigidBody3D>` **&lt;**
`PhysicsBody3D<class_PhysicsBody3D>` **&lt;**
`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>` **&lt;**
`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **&lt;** `Node<class_Node>` **&lt;**
`Object<class_Object>`

A 3D physics body that simulates the behavior of a car.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

This physics body implements all the physics logic needed to simulate a
car. It is based on the raycast vehicle system commonly found in physics
engines. Aside from a `CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>` for the
main body of the vehicle, you must also add a
`VehicleWheel3D<class_VehicleWheel3D>` node for each wheel. You should
also add a `MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` to this node for the
3D model of the vehicle, but this model should generally not include
meshes for the wheels. You can control the vehicle by using the
`brake<class_VehicleBody3D_property_brake>`,
`engine_force<class_VehicleBody3D_property_engine_force>`, and
`steering<class_VehicleBody3D_property_steering>` properties. The
position or orientation of this node shouldn't be changed directly.

\*\*Note:\*\* The origin point of your VehicleBody3D will determine the
center of gravity of your vehicle. To make the vehicle more grounded,
the origin point is usually kept low, moving the
`CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>` and
`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` upwards.

\*\*Note:\*\* This class has known issues and isn't designed to provide
realistic 3D vehicle physics. If you want advanced vehicle physics, you
may have to write your own physics integration using
`CharacterBody3D<class_CharacterBody3D>` or
`RigidBody3D<class_RigidBody3D>`.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   [3D Truck Town
    Demo](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2752)

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **brake** = `0.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_VehicleBody3D_property_brake>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_brake**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_brake**()

Slows down the vehicle by applying a braking force. The vehicle is only
slowed down if the wheels are in contact with a surface. The force you
need to apply to adequately slow down your vehicle depends on the
`RigidBody3D.mass<class_RigidBody3D_property_mass>` of the vehicle. For
a vehicle with a mass set to 1000, try a value in the 25 - 30 range for
hard braking.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **engine\_force** = `0.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_VehicleBody3D_property_engine_force>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_engine\_force**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_engine\_force**()

Accelerates the vehicle by applying an engine force. The vehicle is only
sped up if the wheels that have
`VehicleWheel3D.use_as_traction<class_VehicleWheel3D_property_use_as_traction>`
set to `true` and are in contact with a surface. The
`RigidBody3D.mass<class_RigidBody3D_property_mass>` of the vehicle has
an effect on the acceleration of the vehicle. For a vehicle with a mass
set to 1000, try a value in the 25 - 50 range for acceleration.

\*\*Note:\*\* The simulation does not take the effect of gears into
account, you will need to add logic for this if you wish to simulate
gears.

A negative value will result in the vehicle reversing.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **steering** = `0.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_VehicleBody3D_property_steering>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_steering**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_steering**()

The steering angle for the vehicle. Setting this to a non-zero value
will result in the vehicle turning when it's moving. Wheels that have
`VehicleWheel3D.use_as_steering<class_VehicleWheel3D_property_use_as_steering>`
set to `true` will automatically be rotated.

\*\*Note:\*\* This property is edited in the inspector in degrees. In
code the property is set in radians.
