github\_url  
hide

# ENetConnection

**Inherits:** `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **&lt;**
`Object<class_Object>`

A wrapper class for an
[ENetHost](http://enet.bespin.org/group__host.html).

classref-introduction-group

## Description

ENet's purpose is to provide a relatively thin, simple and robust
network communication layer on top of UDP (User Datagram Protocol).

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   [API documentation on the ENet
    website](http://enet.bespin.org/usergroup0.html)

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Enumerations

classref-enumeration

enum **CompressionMode**: `ðŸ”—<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`

classref-enumeration-constant

`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`
**COMPRESS\_NONE** = `0`

No compression. This uses the most bandwidth, but has the upside of
requiring the fewest CPU resources. This option may also be used to make
network debugging using tools like Wireshark easier.

classref-enumeration-constant

`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`
**COMPRESS\_RANGE\_CODER** = `1`

ENet's built-in range encoding. Works well on small packets, but is not
the most efficient algorithm on packets larger than 4 KB.

classref-enumeration-constant

`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`
**COMPRESS\_FASTLZ** = `2`

[FastLZ](https://fastlz.org/) compression. This option uses less CPU
resources compared to
`COMPRESS_ZLIB<class_ENetConnection_constant_COMPRESS_ZLIB>`, at the
expense of using more bandwidth.

classref-enumeration-constant

`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`
**COMPRESS\_ZLIB** = `3`

[Zlib](https://www.zlib.net/) compression. This option uses less
bandwidth compared to
`COMPRESS_FASTLZ<class_ENetConnection_constant_COMPRESS_FASTLZ>`, at the
expense of using more CPU resources.

classref-enumeration-constant

`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`
**COMPRESS\_ZSTD** = `4`

[Zstandard](https://facebook.github.io/zstd/) compression. Note that
this algorithm is not very efficient on packets smaller than 4 KB.
Therefore, it's recommended to use other compression algorithms in most
cases.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-enumeration

enum **EventType**: `ðŸ”—<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>`

classref-enumeration-constant

`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>` **EVENT\_ERROR** = `-1`

An error occurred during `service<class_ENetConnection_method_service>`.
You will likely need to `destroy<class_ENetConnection_method_destroy>`
the host and recreate it.

classref-enumeration-constant

`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>` **EVENT\_NONE** = `0`

No event occurred within the specified time limit.

classref-enumeration-constant

`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>` **EVENT\_CONNECT** = `1`

A connection request initiated by enet\_host\_connect has completed. The
array will contain the peer which successfully connected.

classref-enumeration-constant

`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>` **EVENT\_DISCONNECT** = `2`

A peer has disconnected. This event is generated on a successful
completion of a disconnect initiated by
`ENetPacketPeer.peer_disconnect<class_ENetPacketPeer_method_peer_disconnect>`,
if a peer has timed out, or if a connection request initialized by
`connect_to_host<class_ENetConnection_method_connect_to_host>` has timed
out. The array will contain the peer which disconnected. The data field
contains user supplied data describing the disconnection, or 0, if none
is available.

classref-enumeration-constant

`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>` **EVENT\_RECEIVE** = `3`

A packet has been received from a peer. The array will contain the peer
which sent the packet and the channel number upon which the packet was
received. The received packet will be queued to the associated
`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-enumeration

enum **HostStatistic**: `ðŸ”—<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`

classref-enumeration-constant

`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`
**HOST\_TOTAL\_SENT\_DATA** = `0`

Total data sent.

classref-enumeration-constant

`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`
**HOST\_TOTAL\_SENT\_PACKETS** = `1`

Total UDP packets sent.

classref-enumeration-constant

`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`
**HOST\_TOTAL\_RECEIVED\_DATA** = `2`

Total data received.

classref-enumeration-constant

`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`
**HOST\_TOTAL\_RECEIVED\_PACKETS** = `3`

Total UDP packets received.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **bandwidth\_limit**(in\_bandwidth:
`int<class_int>` = 0, out\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_bandwidth_limit>`

Adjusts the bandwidth limits of a host.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **broadcast**(channel: `int<class_int>`,
packet: `PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`, flags:
`int<class_int>`) `ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_broadcast>`

Queues a `packet` to be sent to all peers associated with the host over
the specified `channel`. See `ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>`
`FLAG_*` constants for available packet flags.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **channel\_limit**(limit: `int<class_int>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_channel_limit>`

Limits the maximum allowed channels of future incoming connections.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **compress**(mode:
`CompressionMode<enum_ENetConnection_CompressionMode>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_compress>`

Sets the compression method used for network packets. These have
different tradeoffs of compression speed versus bandwidth, you may need
to test which one works best for your use case if you use compression at
all.

\*\*Note:\*\* Most games' network design involve sending many small
packets frequently (smaller than 4 KB each). If in doubt, it is
recommended to keep the default compression algorithm as it works best
on these small packets.

\*\*Note:\*\* The compression mode must be set to the same value on both
the server and all its clients. Clients will fail to connect if the
compression mode set on the client differs from the one set on the
server.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>` **connect\_to\_host**(address:
`String<class_String>`, port: `int<class_int>`, channels:
`int<class_int>` = 0, data: `int<class_int>` = 0)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_connect_to_host>`

Initiates a connection to a foreign `address` using the specified `port`
and allocating the requested `channels`. Optional `data` can be passed
during connection in the form of a 32 bit integer.

\*\*Note:\*\* You must call either
`create_host<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host>` or
`create_host_bound<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host_bound>` on
both ends before calling this method.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **create\_host**(max\_peers:
`int<class_int>` = 32, max\_channels: `int<class_int>` = 0,
in\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0, out\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` =
0) `ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host>`

Creates an ENetHost that allows up to `max_peers` connected peers, each
allocating up to `max_channels` channels, optionally limiting bandwidth
to `in_bandwidth` and `out_bandwidth` (if greater than zero).

This method binds a random available dynamic UDP port on the host
machine at the *unspecified* address. Use
`create_host_bound<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host_bound>` to
specify the address and port.

\*\*Note:\*\* It is necessary to create a host in both client and server
in order to establish a connection.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **create\_host\_bound**(bind\_address:
`String<class_String>`, bind\_port: `int<class_int>`, max\_peers:
`int<class_int>` = 32, max\_channels: `int<class_int>` = 0,
in\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0, out\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` =
0) `ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host_bound>`

Creates an ENetHost bound to the given `bind_address` and `bind_port`
that allows up to `max_peers` connected peers, each allocating up to
`max_channels` channels, optionally limiting bandwidth to `in_bandwidth`
and `out_bandwidth` (if greater than zero).

\*\*Note:\*\* It is necessary to create a host in both client and server
in order to establish a connection.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **destroy**()
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_destroy>`

Destroys the host and all resources associated with it.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **dtls\_client\_setup**(hostname:
`String<class_String>`, client\_options: `TLSOptions<class_TLSOptions>`
= null) `ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_dtls_client_setup>`

Configure this ENetHost to use the custom Godot extension allowing DTLS
encryption for ENet clients. Call this before
`connect_to_host<class_ENetConnection_method_connect_to_host>` to have
ENet connect using DTLS validating the server certificate against
`hostname`. You can pass the optional `client_options` parameter to
customize the trusted certification authorities, or disable the common
name verification. See
`TLSOptions.client<class_TLSOptions_method_client>` and
`TLSOptions.client_unsafe<class_TLSOptions_method_client_unsafe>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>`
**dtls\_server\_setup**(server\_options: `TLSOptions<class_TLSOptions>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_dtls_server_setup>`

Configure this ENetHost to use the custom Godot extension allowing DTLS
encryption for ENet servers. Call this right after
`create_host_bound<class_ENetConnection_method_create_host_bound>` to
have ENet expect peers to connect using DTLS. See
`TLSOptions.server<class_TLSOptions_method_server>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **flush**()
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_flush>`

Sends any queued packets on the host specified to its designated peers.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`int<class_int>` **get\_local\_port**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_get_local_port>`

Returns the local port to which this peer is bound.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`int<class_int>` **get\_max\_channels**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_get_max_channels>`

Returns the maximum number of channels allowed for connected peers.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Array<class_Array>`\[`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>`\]
**get\_peers**() `ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_get_peers>`

Returns the list of peers associated with this host.

\*\*Note:\*\* This list might include some peers that are not fully
connected or are still being disconnected.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`float<class_float>` **pop\_statistic**(statistic:
`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_pop_statistic>`

Returns and resets host statistics. See
`HostStatistic<enum_ENetConnection_HostStatistic>` for more info.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **refuse\_new\_connections**(refuse:
`bool<class_bool>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_refuse_new_connections>`

Configures the DTLS server to automatically drop new connections.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method is only relevant after calling
`dtls_server_setup<class_ENetConnection_method_dtls_server_setup>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Array<class_Array>` **service**(timeout: `int<class_int>` = 0)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_service>`

Waits for events on this connection and shuttles packets between the
host and its peers, with the given `timeout` (in milliseconds). The
returned `Array<class_Array>` will have 4 elements. An
`EventType<enum_ENetConnection_EventType>`, the
`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>` which generated the event, the
event associated data (if any), the event associated channel (if any).
If the generated event is
`EVENT_RECEIVE<class_ENetConnection_constant_EVENT_RECEIVE>`, the
received packet will be queued to the associated
`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>`.

Call this function regularly to handle connections, disconnections, and
to receive new packets.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method must be called on both ends involved in the
event (sending and receiving hosts).

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **socket\_send**(destination\_address:
`String<class_String>`, destination\_port: `int<class_int>`, packet:
`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetConnection_method_socket_send>`

Sends a `packet` toward a destination from the address and port
currently bound by this ENetConnection instance.

This is useful as it serves to establish entries in NAT routing tables
on all devices between this bound instance and the public facing
internet, allowing a prospective client's connection packets to be
routed backward through the NAT device(s) between the public internet
and this host.

This requires forward knowledge of a prospective client's address and
communication port as seen by the public internet - after any NAT
devices have handled their connection request. This information can be
obtained by a [STUN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STUN) service, and
must be handed off to your host by an entity that is not the prospective
client. This will never work for a client behind a Symmetric NAT due to
the nature of the Symmetric NAT routing algorithm, as their IP and Port
cannot be known beforehand.
