github\_url  
hide

# GPUParticlesCollision3D

**Inherits:** `VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` **&lt;**
`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **&lt;** `Node<class_Node>` **&lt;**
`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:**
`GPUParticlesCollisionBox3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionBox3D>`,
`GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D>`,
`GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D>`,
`GPUParticlesCollisionSphere3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSphere3D>`

Abstract base class for 3D particle collision shapes affecting
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>` nodes.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

Particle collision shapes can be used to make particles stop or bounce
against them.

Particle collision shapes work in real-time and can be moved, rotated
and scaled during gameplay. Unlike attractors, non-uniform scaling of
collision shapes is *not* supported.

Particle collision shapes can be temporarily disabled by hiding them.

\*\*Note:\*\*
`ParticleProcessMaterial.collision_mode<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_collision_mode>`
must be
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_RIGID<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_RIGID>`
or
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT>`
on the `GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`'s process material for
collision to work.

\*\*Note:\*\* Particle collision only affects
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`, not
`CPUParticles3D<class_CPUParticles3D>`.

\*\*Note:\*\* Particles pushed by a collider that is being moved will
not be interpolated, which can result in visible stuttering. This can be
alleviated by setting
`GPUParticles3D.fixed_fps<class_GPUParticles3D_property_fixed_fps>` to
`0` or a value that matches or exceeds the target framerate.

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`int<class_int>` **cull\_mask** = `4294967295`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollision3D_property_cull_mask>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_cull\_mask**(value:
    `int<class_int>`)
-   `int<class_int>` **get\_cull\_mask**()

The particle rendering layers
(`VisualInstance3D.layers<class_VisualInstance3D_property_layers>`) that
will be affected by the collision shape. By default, all particles that
have
`ParticleProcessMaterial.collision_mode<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_collision_mode>`
set to
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_RIGID<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_RIGID>`
or
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT>`
will be affected by a collision shape.

After configuring particle nodes accordingly, specific layers can be
unchecked to prevent certain particles from being affected by
attractors. For example, this can be used if you're using an attractor
as part of a spell effect but don't want the attractor to affect
unrelated weather particles at the same position.

Particle attraction can also be disabled on a per-process material basis
by setting
`ParticleProcessMaterial.attractor_interaction_enabled<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_attractor_interaction_enabled>`
on the `GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>` node.
