github\_url  
hide

# OmniLight3D

**Inherits:** `Light3D<class_Light3D>` **&lt;**
`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` **&lt;**
`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **&lt;** `Node<class_Node>` **&lt;**
`Object<class_Object>`

Omnidirectional light, such as a light bulb or a candle.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

An Omnidirectional light is a type of `Light3D<class_Light3D>` that
emits light in all directions. The light is attenuated by distance and
this attenuation can be configured by changing its energy, radius, and
attenuation parameters.

\*\*Note:\*\* When using the Mobile rendering method, only 8 omni lights
can be displayed on each mesh resource. Attempting to display more than
8 omni lights on a single mesh resource will result in omni lights
flickering in and out as the camera moves. When using the Compatibility
rendering method, only 8 omni lights can be displayed on each mesh
resource by default, but this can be increased by adjusting
`ProjectSettings.rendering/limits/opengl/max_lights_per_object<class_ProjectSettings_property_rendering/limits/opengl/max_lights_per_object>`.

\*\*Note:\*\* When using the Mobile or Compatibility rendering methods,
omni lights will only correctly affect meshes whose visibility AABB
intersects with the light's AABB. If using a shader to deform the mesh
in a way that makes it go outside its AABB,
`GeometryInstance3D.extra_cull_margin<class_GeometryInstance3D_property_extra_cull_margin>`
must be increased on the mesh. Otherwise, the light may not be visible
on the mesh.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `3D lights and shadows <../tutorials/3d/lights_and_shadows>`
-   `Faking global illumination <../tutorials/3d/global_illumination/faking_global_illumination>`

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Enumerations

classref-enumeration

enum **ShadowMode**: `ðŸ”—<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>`

classref-enumeration-constant

`ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>` **SHADOW\_DUAL\_PARABOLOID** =
`0`

Shadows are rendered to a dual-paraboloid texture. Faster than
`SHADOW_CUBE<class_OmniLight3D_constant_SHADOW_CUBE>`, but
lower-quality.

classref-enumeration-constant

`ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>` **SHADOW\_CUBE** = `1`

Shadows are rendered to a cubemap. Slower than
`SHADOW_DUAL_PARABOLOID<class_OmniLight3D_constant_SHADOW_DUAL_PARABOLOID>`,
but higher-quality.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **omni\_attenuation** = `1.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_attenuation>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_param**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_param**()

Controls the distance attenuation function for omnilights.

A value of `0.0` will maintain a constant brightness through most of the
range, but smoothly attenuate the light at the edge of the range. Use a
value of `2.0` for physically accurate lights as it results in the
proper inverse square attenutation.

\*\*Note:\*\* Setting attenuation to `2.0` or higher may result in
distant objects receiving minimal light, even within range. For example,
with a range of `4096`, an object at `100` units is attenuated by a
factor of `0.0001`. With a default brightness of `1`, the light would
not be visible at that distance.

\*\*Note:\*\* Using negative or values higher than `10.0` may lead to
unexpected results.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **omni\_range** = `5.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_range>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_param**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_param**()

The light's radius. Note that the effectively lit area may appear to be
smaller depending on the
`omni_attenuation<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_attenuation>` in use.
No matter the
`omni_attenuation<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_attenuation>` in use,
the light will never reach anything outside this radius.

\*\*Note:\*\* `omni_range<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_range>` is not
affected by `Node3D.scale<class_Node3D_property_scale>` (the light's
scale or its parent's scale).

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>` **omni\_shadow\_mode** = `1`
`ðŸ”—<class_OmniLight3D_property_omni_shadow_mode>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_shadow\_mode**(value:
    `ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>`)
-   `ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>` **get\_shadow\_mode**()

See `ShadowMode<enum_OmniLight3D_ShadowMode>`.
