github\_url  
hide

# PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D

**Inherits:** `Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:**
`PhysicsDirectSpaceState3DExtension<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3DExtension>`

Provides direct access to a physics space in the
`PhysicsServer3D<class_PhysicsServer3D>`.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

Provides direct access to a physics space in the
`PhysicsServer3D<class_PhysicsServer3D>`. It's used mainly to do queries
against objects and areas residing in a given space.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `Physics introduction <../tutorials/physics/physics_introduction>`
-   `Ray-casting <../tutorials/physics/ray-casting>`

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`PackedFloat32Array<class_PackedFloat32Array>`
**cast\_motion**(parameters:
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_cast_motion>`

Checks how far a `Shape3D<class_Shape3D>` can move without colliding.
All the parameters for the query, including the shape, are supplied
through a
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`
object.

Returns an array with the safe and unsafe proportions (between 0 and 1)
of the motion. The safe proportion is the maximum fraction of the motion
that can be made without a collision. The unsafe proportion is the
minimum fraction of the distance that must be moved for a collision. If
no collision is detected a result of `[1.0, 1.0]` will be returned.

\*\*Note:\*\* Any `Shape3D<class_Shape3D>`s that the shape is already
colliding with e.g. inside of, will be ignored. Use
`collide_shape<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_collide_shape>` to
determine the `Shape3D<class_Shape3D>`s that the shape is already
colliding with.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Array<class_Array>`\[`Vector3<class_Vector3>`\]
**collide\_shape**(parameters:
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`,
max\_results: `int<class_int>` = 32)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_collide_shape>`

Checks the intersections of a shape, given through a
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`
object, against the space. The resulting array contains a list of points
where the shape intersects another. Like with
`intersect_shape<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_intersect_shape>`,
the number of returned results can be limited to save processing time.

Returned points are a list of pairs of contact points. For each pair the
first one is in the shape passed in
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`
object, second one is in the collided shape from the physics space.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method does not take into account the `motion`
property of the object.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **get\_rest\_info**(parameters:
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_get_rest_info>`

Checks the intersections of a shape, given through a
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`
object, against the space. If it collides with more than one shape, the
nearest one is selected. The returned object is a dictionary containing
the following fields:

`collider_id`: The colliding object's ID.

`linear_velocity`: The colliding object's velocity
`Vector3<class_Vector3>`. If the object is an `Area3D<class_Area3D>`,
the result is `(0, 0, 0)`.

`normal`: The object's surface normal at the intersection point.

`point`: The intersection point.

`rid`: The intersecting object's `RID<class_RID>`.

`shape`: The shape index of the colliding shape.

If the shape did not intersect anything, then an empty dictionary is
returned instead.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method does not take into account the `motion`
property of the object.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Array<class_Array>`\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\]
**intersect\_point**(parameters:
`PhysicsPointQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsPointQueryParameters3D>`,
max\_results: `int<class_int>` = 32)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_intersect_point>`

Checks whether a point is inside any solid shape. Position and other
parameters are defined through
`PhysicsPointQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsPointQueryParameters3D>`.
The shapes the point is inside of are returned in an array containing
dictionaries with the following fields:

`collider`: The colliding object.

`collider_id`: The colliding object's ID.

`rid`: The intersecting object's `RID<class_RID>`.

`shape`: The shape index of the colliding shape.

The number of intersections can be limited with the `max_results`
parameter, to reduce the processing time.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **intersect\_ray**(parameters:
`PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_intersect_ray>`

Intersects a ray in a given space. Ray position and other parameters are
defined through
`PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D>`. The
returned object is a dictionary with the following fields:

`collider`: The colliding object.

`collider_id`: The colliding object's ID.

`normal`: The object's surface normal at the intersection point, or
`Vector3(0, 0, 0)` if the ray starts inside the shape and
`PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D.hit_from_inside<class_PhysicsRayQueryParameters3D_property_hit_from_inside>`
is `true`.

`position`: The intersection point.

`face_index`: The face index at the intersection point.

\*\*Note:\*\* Returns a valid number only if the intersected shape is a
`ConcavePolygonShape3D<class_ConcavePolygonShape3D>`. Otherwise, `-1` is
returned.

`rid`: The intersecting object's `RID<class_RID>`.

`shape`: The shape index of the colliding shape.

If the ray did not intersect anything, then an empty dictionary is
returned instead.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Array<class_Array>`\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\]
**intersect\_shape**(parameters:
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`,
max\_results: `int<class_int>` = 32)
`ðŸ”—<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D_method_intersect_shape>`

Checks the intersections of a shape, given through a
`PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D<class_PhysicsShapeQueryParameters3D>`
object, against the space. The intersected shapes are returned in an
array containing dictionaries with the following fields:

`collider`: The colliding object.

`collider_id`: The colliding object's ID.

`rid`: The intersecting object's `RID<class_RID>`.

`shape`: The shape index of the colliding shape.

The number of intersections can be limited with the `max_results`
parameter, to reduce the processing time.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method does not take into account the `motion`
property of the object.
