github\_url  
hide

# ConcavePolygonShape3D

**Inherits:** `Shape3D<class_Shape3D>` **&lt;**
`Resource<class_Resource>` **&lt;** `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`
**&lt;** `Object<class_Object>`

A 3D trimesh shape used for physics collision.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

A 3D trimesh shape, intended for use in physics. Usually used to provide
a shape for a `CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>`.

Being just a collection of interconnected triangles,
**ConcavePolygonShape3D** is the most freely configurable single 3D
shape. It can be used to form polyhedra of any nature, or even shapes
that don't enclose a volume. However, **ConcavePolygonShape3D** is
*hollow* even if the interconnected triangles do enclose a volume, which
often makes it unsuitable for physics or detection.

\*\*Note:\*\* When used for collision, **ConcavePolygonShape3D** is
intended to work with static `CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>`
nodes like `StaticBody3D<class_StaticBody3D>` and will likely not behave
well for `CharacterBody3D<class_CharacterBody3D>`s or
`RigidBody3D<class_RigidBody3D>`s in a mode other than Static.

\*\*Warning:\*\* Physics bodies that are small have a chance to clip
through this shape when moving fast. This happens because on one frame,
the physics body may be on the "outside" of the shape, and on the next
frame it may be "inside" it. **ConcavePolygonShape3D** is hollow, so it
won't detect a collision.

\*\*Performance:\*\* Due to its complexity, **ConcavePolygonShape3D** is
the slowest 3D collision shape to check collisions against. Its use
should generally be limited to level geometry. For convex geometry,
`ConvexPolygonShape3D<class_ConvexPolygonShape3D>` should be used. For
dynamic physics bodies that need concave collision, several
`ConvexPolygonShape3D<class_ConvexPolygonShape3D>`s can be used to
represent its collision by using convex decomposition; see
`ConvexPolygonShape3D<class_ConvexPolygonShape3D>`'s documentation for
instructions.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   [3D Physics Tests
    Demo](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2747)

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`bool<class_bool>` **backface\_collision** = `false`
`ðŸ”—<class_ConcavePolygonShape3D_property_backface_collision>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)`
    **set\_backface\_collision\_enabled**(value: `bool<class_bool>`)
-   `bool<class_bool>` **is\_backface\_collision\_enabled**()

If set to `true`, collisions occur on both sides of the concave shape
faces. Otherwise they occur only along the face normals.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`PackedVector3Array<class_PackedVector3Array>` **get\_faces**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ConcavePolygonShape3D_method_get_faces>`

Returns the faces of the trimesh shape as an array of vertices. The
array (of length divisible by three) is naturally divided into triples;
each triple of vertices defines a triangle.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_faces**(faces:
`PackedVector3Array<class_PackedVector3Array>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ConcavePolygonShape3D_method_set_faces>`

Sets the faces of the trimesh shape from an array of vertices. The
`faces` array should be composed of triples such that each triple of
vertices defines a triangle.
