github\_url  
hide

# NavigationMeshGenerator

**Deprecated:** This class may be changed or removed in future versions.

**Inherits:** `Object<class_Object>`

Helper class for creating and clearing navigation meshes.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

This class is responsible for creating and clearing 3D navigation meshes
used as `NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` resources inside
`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>`. The
**NavigationMeshGenerator** has very limited to no use for 2D as the
navigation mesh baking process expects 3D node types and 3D source
geometry to parse.

The entire navigation mesh baking is best done in a separate thread as
the voxelization, collision tests and mesh optimization steps involved
are very slow and performance-intensive operations.

Navigation mesh baking happens in multiple steps and the result depends
on 3D source geometry and properties of the
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` resource. In the first step,
starting from a root node and depending on
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` properties all valid 3D source
geometry nodes are collected from the `SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
Second, all collected nodes are parsed for their relevant 3D geometry
data and a combined 3D mesh is build. Due to the many different types of
parsable objects, from normal `MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>`s to
`CSGShape3D<class_CSGShape3D>`s or various
`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>`s, some operations to
collect geometry data can trigger
`RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>` and
`PhysicsServer3D<class_PhysicsServer3D>` synchronizations. Server
synchronization can have a negative effect on baking time or framerate
as it often involves `Mutex<class_Mutex>` locking for thread security.
Many parsable objects and the continuous synchronization with other
threaded Servers can increase the baking time significantly. On the
other hand only a few but very large and complex objects will take some
time to prepare for the Servers which can noticeably stall the next
frame render. As a general rule the total number of parsable objects and
their individual size and complexity should be balanced to avoid
framerate issues or very long baking times. The combined mesh is then
passed to the Recast Navigation Object to test the source geometry for
walkable terrain suitable to `NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>`
agent properties by creating a voxel world around the meshes bounding
area.

The finalized navigation mesh is then returned and stored inside the
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` for use as a resource inside
`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>` nodes.

\*\*Note:\*\* Using meshes to not only define walkable surfaces but also
obstruct navigation baking does not always work. The navigation baking
has no concept of what is a geometry "inside" when dealing with mesh
source geometry and this is intentional. Depending on current baking
parameters, as soon as the obstructing mesh is large enough to fit a
navigation mesh area inside, the baking will generate navigation mesh
areas that are inside the obstructing source geometry mesh.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `Using NavigationMeshes <../tutorials/navigation/navigation_using_navigationmeshes>`

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **bake**(navigation\_mesh:
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>`, root\_node: `Node<class_Node>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_bake>`

**Deprecated:** This method is deprecated due to core threading changes.
To upgrade existing code, first create a
`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D>`
resource. Use this resource with
`parse_source_geometry_data<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_parse_source_geometry_data>`
to parse the `SceneTree<class_SceneTree>` for nodes that should
contribute to the navigation mesh baking. The
`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>` parsing needs to happen on the main thread.
After the parsing is finished use the resource with
`bake_from_source_geometry_data<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_bake_from_source_geometry_data>`
to bake a navigation mesh.

Bakes the `navigation_mesh` with source geometry collected starting from
the `root_node`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)`
**bake\_from\_source\_geometry\_data**(navigation\_mesh:
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>`, source\_geometry\_data:
`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D>`,
callback: `Callable<class_Callable>` = Callable())
`ðŸ”—<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_bake_from_source_geometry_data>`

Bakes the provided `navigation_mesh` with the data from the provided
`source_geometry_data`. After the process is finished the optional
`callback` will be called.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **clear**(navigation\_mesh:
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_clear>`

Removes all polygons and vertices from the provided `navigation_mesh`
resource.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)`
**parse\_source\_geometry\_data**(navigation\_mesh:
`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>`, source\_geometry\_data:
`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D>`,
root\_node: `Node<class_Node>`, callback: `Callable<class_Callable>` =
Callable())
`ðŸ”—<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_parse_source_geometry_data>`

Parses the `SceneTree<class_SceneTree>` for source geometry according to
the properties of `navigation_mesh`. Updates the provided
`source_geometry_data` resource with the resulting data. The resource
can then be used to bake a navigation mesh with
`bake_from_source_geometry_data<class_NavigationMeshGenerator_method_bake_from_source_geometry_data>`.
After the process is finished the optional `callback` will be called.

\*\*Note:\*\* This function needs to run on the main thread or with a
deferred call as the SceneTree is not thread-safe.

\*\*Performance:\*\* While convenient, reading data arrays from
`Mesh<class_Mesh>` resources can affect the frame rate negatively. The
data needs to be received from the GPU, stalling the
`RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>` in the process. For performance
prefer the use of e.g. collision shapes or creating the data arrays
entirely in code.
