# GD0301: The generic type argument must be a Variant compatible type

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Value</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Rule ID</strong></td>
<td>GD0301</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Usage</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Fix is breaking or non-breaking</strong></td>
<td>Breaking</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Enabled by default</strong></td>
<td>Yes</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Cause

An unsupported type is specified for a generic type argument when a
`Variant-compatible type <c_sharp_variant_compatible_types>` is
expected.

## Rule description

When a generic type parameter is annotated with the `[MustBeVariant]`
attribute, the generic type is required to be a Variant-compatible type.
For example, the generic `Godot.Collections.Array<T>` type only supports
items of a type that can be converted to Variant.

    class SomeType { }

    // SomeType is not a valid type because it doesn't derive from GodotObject,
    // so it's not compatible with Variant.
    var invalidArray = new Godot.Collections.Array<SomeType>();

    // System.Int32 is a valid type because it's compatible with Variant.
    var validArray = new Godot.Collections.Array<int>();

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, change the generic type argument to be
a Variant-compatible type or use a different API that doesn't require
the generic type argument to be a Variant-compatible type.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. API that contains generic type
arguments annotated with the `[MustBeVariant]` attribute usually has
this requirement because the values will be passed to the engine, if the
type can't be marshalled it will result in runtime errors.
