github\_url  
hide

# OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata

**Inherits:** `Object<class_Object>`

Meta class registering supported devices in OpenXR.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

This class allows OpenXR core and extensions to register metadata
relating to supported interaction devices such as controllers, trackers,
haptic devices, etc. It is primarily used by the action map editor and
to sanitize any action map by removing extension-dependent entries when
applicable.

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`void (No return value.)`
**register\_interaction\_profile**(display\_name:
`String<class_String>`, openxr\_path: `String<class_String>`,
openxr\_extension\_name: `String<class_String>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata_method_register_interaction_profile>`

Registers an interaction profile using its OpenXR designation (e.g.
`/interaction_profiles/khr/simple_controller` is the profile for
OpenXR's simple controller profile).

`display_name` is the description shown to the user. `openxr_path` is
the interaction profile path being registered. `openxr_extension_name`
optionally restricts this profile to the given extension being
enabled/available. If the extension is not available, the profile and
all related entries used in an action map are filtered out.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **register\_io\_path**(interaction\_profile:
`String<class_String>`, display\_name: `String<class_String>`,
toplevel\_path: `String<class_String>`, openxr\_path:
`String<class_String>`, openxr\_extension\_name: `String<class_String>`,
action\_type: `ActionType<enum_OpenXRAction_ActionType>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata_method_register_io_path>`

Registers an input/output path for the given `interaction_profile`. The
profile should previously have been registered using
`register_interaction_profile<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata_method_register_interaction_profile>`.
`display_name` is the description shown to the user. `toplevel_path`
specifies the bind path this input/output can be bound to (e.g.
`/user/hand/left` or `/user/hand/right`). `openxr_path` is the action
input/output being registered (e.g. `/user/hand/left/input/aim/pose`).
`openxr_extension_name` restricts this input/output to an
enabled/available extension, this doesn't need to repeat the extension
on the profile but relates to overlapping extension (e.g.
`XR_EXT_palm_pose` that introduces `â€¦/input/palm_ext/pose` input paths).
`action_type` defines the type of input or output provided by OpenXR.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **register\_profile\_rename**(old\_name:
`String<class_String>`, new\_name: `String<class_String>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata_method_register_profile_rename>`

Allows for renaming old interaction profile paths to new paths to
maintain backwards compatibility with older action maps.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **register\_top\_level\_path**(display\_name:
`String<class_String>`, openxr\_path: `String<class_String>`,
openxr\_extension\_name: `String<class_String>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata_method_register_top_level_path>`

Registers a top level path to which profiles can be bound. For instance
`/user/hand/left` refers to the bind point for the player's left hand.
Extensions can register additional top level paths, for instance a
haptic vest extension might register `/user/body/vest`.

`display_name` is the name shown to the user. `openxr_path` is the top
level path being registered. `openxr_extension_name` is optional and
ensures the top level path is only used if the specified extension is
available/enabled.

When a top level path ends up being bound by OpenXR, a
`XRPositionalTracker<class_XRPositionalTracker>` is instantiated to
manage the state of the device.
