github\_url  
hide

# ShaderMaterial

**Inherits:** `Material<class_Material>` **&lt;**
`Resource<class_Resource>` **&lt;** `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`
**&lt;** `Object<class_Object>`

A material defined by a custom `Shader<class_Shader>` program and the
values of its shader parameters.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

A material that uses a custom `Shader<class_Shader>` program to render
visual items (canvas items, meshes, skies, fog), or to process
particles. Compared to other materials, **ShaderMaterial** gives deeper
control over the generated shader code. For more information, see the
shaders documentation index below.

Multiple **ShaderMaterial**s can use the same shader and configure
different values for the shader uniforms.

\*\*Note:\*\* For performance reasons, the
`Resource.changed<class_Resource_signal_changed>` signal is only emitted
when the `Resource.resource_name<class_Resource_property_resource_name>`
changes. Only in editor, it is also emitted for
`shader<class_ShaderMaterial_property_shader>` changes.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `Shaders documentation index <../tutorials/shaders/index>`

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`Shader<class_Shader>` **shader**
`ðŸ”—<class_ShaderMaterial_property_shader>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_shader**(value:
    `Shader<class_Shader>`)
-   `Shader<class_Shader>` **get\_shader**()

The `Shader<class_Shader>` program used to render this material.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`Variant<class_Variant>` **get\_shader\_parameter**(param:
`StringName<class_StringName>`)
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ShaderMaterial_method_get_shader_parameter>`

Returns the current value set for this material of a uniform in the
shader.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_shader\_parameter**(param:
`StringName<class_StringName>`, value: `Variant<class_Variant>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ShaderMaterial_method_set_shader_parameter>`

Changes the value set for this material of a uniform in the shader.

\*\*Note:\*\* `param` is case-sensitive and must match the name of the
uniform in the code exactly (not the capitalized name in the inspector).

\*\*Note:\*\* Changes to the shader uniform will be effective on all
instances using this **ShaderMaterial**. To prevent this, use
per-instance uniforms with
`GeometryInstance3D.set_instance_shader_parameter<class_GeometryInstance3D_method_set_instance_shader_parameter>`
or duplicate the **ShaderMaterial** resource using
`Resource.duplicate<class_Resource_method_duplicate>`. Per-instance
uniforms allow for better shader reuse and are therefore faster, so they
should be preferred over duplicating the **ShaderMaterial** when
possible.
