github\_url  
hide

# XROrigin3D

**Inherits:** `Node3D<class_Node3D>` **&lt;** `Node<class_Node>`
**&lt;** `Object<class_Object>`

The origin point in AR/VR.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

This is a special node within the AR/VR system that maps the physical
location of the center of our tracking space to the virtual location
within our game world.

Multiple origin points can be added to the scene tree, but only one can
used at a time. All the `XRCamera3D<class_XRCamera3D>`,
`XRController3D<class_XRController3D>`, and
`XRAnchor3D<class_XRAnchor3D>` nodes should be direct children of this
node for spatial tracking to work correctly.

It is the position of this node that you update when your character
needs to move through your game world while we're not moving in the real
world. Movement in the real world is always in relation to this origin
point.

For example, if your character is driving a car, the **XROrigin3D** node
should be a child node of this car. Or, if you're implementing a
teleport system to move your character, you should change the position
of this node.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `XR documentation index <../tutorials/xr/index>`

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`bool<class_bool>` **current** = `false`
`ðŸ”—<class_XROrigin3D_property_current>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_current**(value:
    `bool<class_bool>`)
-   `bool<class_bool>` **is\_current**()

If `true`, this origin node is currently being used by the
`XRServer<class_XRServer>`. Only one origin point can be used at a time.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **world\_scale** = `1.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_XROrigin3D_property_world_scale>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_world\_scale**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_world\_scale**()

The scale of the game world compared to the real world. This is the same
as `XRServer.world_scale<class_XRServer_property_world_scale>`. By
default, most AR/VR platforms assume that 1 game unit corresponds to 1
real world meter.
