github\_url  
hide

# ImageTexture

**Inherits:** `Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **&lt;**
`Texture<class_Texture>` **&lt;** `Resource<class_Resource>` **&lt;**
`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **&lt;** `Object<class_Object>`

A `Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` based on an `Image<class_Image>`.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

A `Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` based on an `Image<class_Image>`. For an
image to be displayed, an **ImageTexture** has to be created from it
using the
`create_from_image<class_ImageTexture_method_create_from_image>` method:

    var image = Image.load_from_file("res://icon.svg")
    var texture = ImageTexture.create_from_image(image)
    $Sprite2D.texture = texture

This way, textures can be created at run-time by loading images both
from within the editor and externally.

\*\*Warning:\*\* Prefer to load imported textures with
`@GDScript.load<class_@GDScript_method_load>` over loading them from
within the filesystem dynamically with
`Image.load<class_Image_method_load>`, as it may not work in exported
projects:

    var texture = load("res://icon.svg")
    $Sprite2D.texture = texture

This is because images have to be imported as a
`CompressedTexture2D<class_CompressedTexture2D>` first to be loaded with
`@GDScript.load<class_@GDScript_method_load>`. If you'd still like to
load an image file just like any other `Resource<class_Resource>`,
import it as an `Image<class_Image>` resource instead, and then load it
normally using the `@GDScript.load<class_@GDScript_method_load>` method.

\*\*Note:\*\* The image can be retrieved from an imported texture using
the `Texture2D.get_image<class_Texture2D_method_get_image>` method,
which returns a copy of the image:

    var texture = load("res://icon.svg")
    var image: Image = texture.get_image()

An **ImageTexture** is not meant to be operated from within the editor
interface directly, and is mostly useful for rendering images on screen
dynamically via code. If you need to generate images procedurally from
within the editor, consider saving and importing images as custom
texture resources implementing a new
`EditorImportPlugin<class_EditorImportPlugin>`.

\*\*Note:\*\* The maximum texture size is 16384Ã—16384 pixels due to
graphics hardware limitations.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `Importing images <../tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_images>`

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`ImageTexture<class_ImageTexture>` **create\_from\_image**(image:
`Image<class_Image>`)
`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ImageTexture_method_create_from_image>`

Creates a new **ImageTexture** and initializes it by allocating and
setting the data from an `Image<class_Image>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Format<enum_Image_Format>` **get\_format**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ImageTexture_method_get_format>`

Returns the format of the texture, one of `Format<enum_Image_Format>`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_image**(image: `Image<class_Image>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ImageTexture_method_set_image>`

Replaces the texture's data with a new `Image<class_Image>`. This will
re-allocate new memory for the texture.

If you want to update the image, but don't need to change its parameters
(format, size), use `update<class_ImageTexture_method_update>` instead
for better performance.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_size\_override**(size:
`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ImageTexture_method_set_size_override>`

Resizes the texture to the specified dimensions.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **update**(image: `Image<class_Image>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ImageTexture_method_update>`

Replaces the texture's data with a new `Image<class_Image>`.

\*\*Note:\*\* The texture has to be created using
`create_from_image<class_ImageTexture_method_create_from_image>` or
initialized first with the
`set_image<class_ImageTexture_method_set_image>` method before it can be
updated. The new image dimensions, format, and mipmaps configuration
should match the existing texture's image configuration.

Use this method over `set_image<class_ImageTexture_method_set_image>` if
you need to update the texture frequently, which is faster than
allocating additional memory for a new texture each time.
