github\_url  
hide

# ENetMultiplayerPeer

**Inherits:** `MultiplayerPeer<class_MultiplayerPeer>` **&lt;**
`PacketPeer<class_PacketPeer>` **&lt;** `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`
**&lt;** `Object<class_Object>`

A MultiplayerPeer implementation using the
[ENet](http://enet.bespin.org/index.html) library.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

A MultiplayerPeer implementation that should be passed to
`MultiplayerAPI.multiplayer_peer<class_MultiplayerAPI_property_multiplayer_peer>`
after being initialized as either a client, server, or mesh. Events can
then be handled by connecting to `MultiplayerAPI<class_MultiplayerAPI>`
signals. See `ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>` for more information
on the ENet library wrapper.

\*\*Note:\*\* ENet only uses UDP, not TCP. When forwarding the server
port to make your server accessible on the public Internet, you only
need to forward the server port in UDP. You can use the
`UPNP<class_UPNP>` class to try to forward the server port automatically
when starting the server.

classref-introduction-group

## Tutorials

-   `High-level multiplayer <../tutorials/networking/high_level_multiplayer>`
-   [API documentation on the ENet
    website](http://enet.bespin.org/usergroup0.html)

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>` **host**
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_property_host>`

classref-property-setget

-   `ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>` **get\_host**()

The underlying `ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>` created after
`create_client<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_client>` and
`create_server<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_server>`.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **add\_mesh\_peer**(peer\_id:
`int<class_int>`, host: `ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_add_mesh_peer>`

Add a new remote peer with the given `peer_id` connected to the given
`host`.

\*\*Note:\*\* The `host` must have exactly one peer in the
`ENetPacketPeer.STATE_CONNECTED<class_ENetPacketPeer_constant_STATE_CONNECTED>`
state.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **create\_client**(address:
`String<class_String>`, port: `int<class_int>`, channel\_count:
`int<class_int>` = 0, in\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0,
out\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0, local\_port: `int<class_int>` = 0)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_client>`

Create client that connects to a server at `address` using specified
`port`. The given address needs to be either a fully qualified domain
name (e.g. `"www.example.com"`) or an IP address in IPv4 or IPv6 format
(e.g. `"192.168.1.1"`). The `port` is the port the server is listening
on. The `channel_count` parameter can be used to specify the number of
ENet channels allocated for the connection. The `in_bandwidth` and
`out_bandwidth` parameters can be used to limit the incoming and
outgoing bandwidth to the given number of bytes per second. The default
of 0 means unlimited bandwidth. Note that ENet will strategically drop
packets on specific sides of a connection between peers to ensure the
peer's bandwidth is not overwhelmed. The bandwidth parameters also
determine the window size of a connection which limits the amount of
reliable packets that may be in transit at any given time. Returns
`@GlobalScope.OK<class_@GlobalScope_constant_OK>` if a client was
created,
`@GlobalScope.ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE>`
if this ENetMultiplayerPeer instance already has an open connection (in
which case you need to call
`MultiplayerPeer.close<class_MultiplayerPeer_method_close>` first) or
`@GlobalScope.ERR_CANT_CREATE<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_CANT_CREATE>`
if the client could not be created. If `local_port` is specified, the
client will also listen to the given port; this is useful for some NAT
traversal techniques.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **create\_mesh**(unique\_id:
`int<class_int>`) `ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_mesh>`

Initialize this `MultiplayerPeer<class_MultiplayerPeer>` in mesh mode.
The provided `unique_id` will be used as the local peer network unique
ID once assigned as the
`MultiplayerAPI.multiplayer_peer<class_MultiplayerAPI_property_multiplayer_peer>`.
In the mesh configuration you will need to set up each new peer manually
using `ENetConnection<class_ENetConnection>` before calling
`add_mesh_peer<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_add_mesh_peer>`. While
this technique is more advanced, it allows for better control over the
connection process (e.g. when dealing with NAT punch-through) and for
better distribution of the network load (which would otherwise be more
taxing on the server).

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **create\_server**(port:
`int<class_int>`, max\_clients: `int<class_int>` = 32, max\_channels:
`int<class_int>` = 0, in\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0,
out\_bandwidth: `int<class_int>` = 0)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_server>`

Create server that listens to connections via `port`. The port needs to
be an available, unused port between 0 and 65535. Note that ports below
1024 are privileged and may require elevated permissions depending on
the platform. To change the interface the server listens on, use
`set_bind_ip<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_set_bind_ip>`. The default
IP is the wildcard `"*"`, which listens on all available interfaces.
`max_clients` is the maximum number of clients that are allowed at once,
any number up to 4095 may be used, although the achievable number of
simultaneous clients may be far lower and depends on the application.
For additional details on the bandwidth parameters, see
`create_client<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_create_client>`. Returns
`@GlobalScope.OK<class_@GlobalScope_constant_OK>` if a server was
created,
`@GlobalScope.ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_ALREADY_IN_USE>`
if this ENetMultiplayerPeer instance already has an open connection (in
which case you need to call
`MultiplayerPeer.close<class_MultiplayerPeer_method_close>` first) or
`@GlobalScope.ERR_CANT_CREATE<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_CANT_CREATE>`
if the server could not be created.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>` **get\_peer**(id:
`int<class_int>`)
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_get_peer>`

Returns the `ENetPacketPeer<class_ENetPacketPeer>` associated to the
given `id`.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_bind\_ip**(ip: `String<class_String>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_ENetMultiplayerPeer_method_set_bind_ip>`

The IP used when creating a server. This is set to the wildcard `"*"` by
default, which binds to all available interfaces. The given IP needs to
be in IPv4 or IPv6 address format, for example: `"192.168.1.1"`.
