github\_url  
hide

# GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D

**Inherits:** `GPUParticlesCollision3D<class_GPUParticlesCollision3D>`
**&lt;** `VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` **&lt;**
`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **&lt;** `Node<class_Node>` **&lt;**
`Object<class_Object>`

A baked signed distance field 3D particle collision shape affecting
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>` nodes.

classref-introduction-group

## Description

A baked signed distance field 3D particle collision shape affecting
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>` nodes.

Signed distance fields (SDF) allow for efficiently representing
approximate collision shapes for convex and concave objects of any
shape. This is more flexible than
`GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D>`,
but it requires a baking step.

\*\*Baking:\*\* The signed distance field texture can be baked by
selecting the **GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D** node in the editor, then
clicking **Bake SDF** at the top of the 3D viewport. Any *visible*
`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>`s within the
`size<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_size>` will be taken
into account for baking, regardless of their
`GeometryInstance3D.gi_mode<class_GeometryInstance3D_property_gi_mode>`.

\*\*Note:\*\* Baking a **GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D**'s
`texture<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_texture>` is only
possible within the editor, as there is no bake method exposed for use
in exported projects. However, it's still possible to load pre-baked
`Texture3D<class_Texture3D>`s into its
`texture<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_texture>` property in
an exported project.

\*\*Note:\*\*
`ParticleProcessMaterial.collision_mode<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_collision_mode>`
must be
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_RIGID<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_RIGID>`
or
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT>`
on the `GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`'s process material for
collision to work.

\*\*Note:\*\* Particle collision only affects
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`, not
`CPUParticles3D<class_CPUParticles3D>`.

classref-reftable-group

## Properties

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-reftable-group

## Methods

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
</tr>
<tr>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Enumerations

classref-enumeration

enum **Resolution**: `ðŸ”—<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_16** = `0`

Bake a 16Ã—16Ã—16 signed distance field. This is the fastest option, but
also the least precise.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_32** = `1`

Bake a 32Ã—32Ã—32 signed distance field.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_64** = `2`

Bake a 64Ã—64Ã—64 signed distance field.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_128** = `3`

Bake a 128Ã—128Ã—128 signed distance field.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_256** = `4`

Bake a 256Ã—256Ã—256 signed distance field.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_512** = `5`

Bake a 512Ã—512Ã—512 signed distance field. This is the slowest option,
but also the most precise.

classref-enumeration-constant

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
**RESOLUTION\_MAX** = `6`

Represents the size of the
`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>` enum.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Property Descriptions

classref-property

`int<class_int>` **bake\_mask** = `4294967295`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_bake_mask>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_bake\_mask**(value:
    `int<class_int>`)
-   `int<class_int>` **get\_bake\_mask**()

The visual layers to account for when baking the particle collision SDF.
Only `MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>`s whose
`VisualInstance3D.layers<class_VisualInstance3D_property_layers>` match
with this
`bake_mask<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_bake_mask>` will be
included in the generated particle collision SDF. By default, all
objects are taken into account for the particle collision SDF baking.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>` **resolution**
= `2` `ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_resolution>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_resolution**(value:
    `Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`)
-   `Resolution<enum_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_Resolution>`
    **get\_resolution**()

The bake resolution to use for the signed distance field
`texture<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_texture>`. The
texture must be baked again for changes to the
`resolution<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_resolution>`
property to be effective. Higher resolutions have a greater performance
cost and take more time to bake. Higher resolutions also result in
larger baked textures, leading to increased VRAM and storage space
requirements. To improve performance and reduce bake times, use the
lowest resolution possible for the object you're representing the
collision of.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **size** = `Vector3(2, 2, 2)`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_size>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_size**(value:
    `Vector3<class_Vector3>`)
-   `Vector3<class_Vector3>` **get\_size**()

The collision SDF's size in 3D units. To improve SDF quality, the
`size<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_size>` should be set as
small as possible while covering the parts of the scene you need.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`Texture3D<class_Texture3D>` **texture**
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_texture>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_texture**(value:
    `Texture3D<class_Texture3D>`)
-   `Texture3D<class_Texture3D>` **get\_texture**()

The 3D texture representing the signed distance field.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-property

`float<class_float>` **thickness** = `1.0`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_thickness>`

classref-property-setget

-   `void (No return value.)` **set\_thickness**(value:
    `float<class_float>`)
-   `float<class_float>` **get\_thickness**()

The collision shape's thickness. Unlike other particle colliders,
**GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D** is actually hollow on the inside.
`thickness<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_thickness>` can be
increased to prevent particles from tunneling through the collision
shape at high speeds, or when the **GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D** is
moved.

classref-section-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-descriptions-group

## Method Descriptions

classref-method

`bool<class_bool>` **get\_bake\_mask\_value**(layer\_number:
`int<class_int>`)
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_method_get_bake_mask_value>`

Returns whether or not the specified layer of the
`bake_mask<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_bake_mask>` is
enabled, given a `layer_number` between 1 and 32.

classref-item-separator

------------------------------------------------------------------------

classref-method

`void (No return value.)` **set\_bake\_mask\_value**(layer\_number:
`int<class_int>`, value: `bool<class_bool>`)
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_method_set_bake_mask_value>`

Based on `value`, enables or disables the specified layer in the
`bake_mask<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D_property_bake_mask>`, given
a `layer_number` between 1 and 32.
