github\_url  
hide

allow\_comments  
False

# All classes

# Globals

[class]()@gdscript [class]()@globalscope

# Nodes

class\_node class\_acceptdialog class\_animatablebody2d
class\_animatablebody3d class\_animatedsprite2d class\_animatedsprite3d
class\_animationmixer class\_animationplayer class\_animationtree
class\_area2d class\_area3d class\_aspectratiocontainer
class\_audiolistener2d class\_audiolistener3d class\_audiostreamplayer
class\_audiostreamplayer2d class\_audiostreamplayer3d
class\_backbuffercopy class\_basebutton class\_bone2d
class\_boneattachment3d class\_boxcontainer class\_button
class\_camera2d class\_camera3d class\_canvasgroup class\_canvasitem
class\_canvaslayer class\_canvasmodulate class\_centercontainer
class\_characterbody2d class\_characterbody3d class\_checkbox
class\_checkbutton class\_codeedit class\_collisionobject2d
class\_collisionobject3d class\_collisionpolygon2d
class\_collisionpolygon3d class\_collisionshape2d
class\_collisionshape3d class\_colorpicker class\_colorpickerbutton
class\_colorrect class\_conetwistjoint3d class\_confirmationdialog
class\_container class\_control class\_cpuparticles2d
class\_cpuparticles3d class\_csgbox3d class\_csgcombiner3d
class\_csgcylinder3d class\_csgmesh3d class\_csgpolygon3d
class\_csgprimitive3d class\_csgshape3d class\_csgsphere3d
class\_csgtorus3d class\_dampedspringjoint2d class\_decal
class\_directionallight2d class\_directionallight3d
class\_editorcommandpalette class\_editorfiledialog
class\_editorfilesystem class\_editorinspector class\_editorplugin
class\_editorproperty class\_editorresourcepicker
class\_editorresourcepreview class\_editorscriptpicker
class\_editorspinslider class\_filedialog class\_filesystemdock
class\_flowcontainer class\_fogvolume class\_generic6dofjoint3d
class\_geometryinstance3d class\_gpuparticles2d class\_gpuparticles3d
class\_gpuparticlesattractor3d class\_gpuparticlesattractorbox3d
class\_gpuparticlesattractorsphere3d
class\_gpuparticlesattractorvectorfield3d class\_gpuparticlescollision3d
class\_gpuparticlescollisionbox3d
class\_gpuparticlescollisionheightfield3d
class\_gpuparticlescollisionsdf3d class\_gpuparticlescollisionsphere3d
class\_graphedit class\_graphelement class\_graphframe class\_graphnode
class\_gridcontainer class\_gridmap class\_groovejoint2d
class\_hboxcontainer class\_hflowcontainer class\_hingejoint3d
class\_hscrollbar class\_hseparator class\_hslider
class\_hsplitcontainer class\_httprequest class\_importermeshinstance3d
class\_instanceplaceholder class\_itemlist class\_joint2d class\_joint3d
class\_label class\_label3d class\_light2d class\_light3d
class\_lightmapgi class\_lightmapprobe class\_lightoccluder2d
class\_line2d class\_lineedit class\_linkbutton class\_margincontainer
class\_marker2d class\_marker3d class\_menubar class\_menubutton
class\_meshinstance2d class\_meshinstance3d class\_missingnode
class\_multimeshinstance2d class\_multimeshinstance3d
class\_multiplayerspawner class\_multiplayersynchronizer
class\_navigationagent2d class\_navigationagent3d
class\_navigationlink2d class\_navigationlink3d
class\_navigationobstacle2d class\_navigationobstacle3d
class\_navigationregion2d class\_navigationregion3d class\_ninepatchrect
class\_node2d class\_node3d class\_occluderinstance3d class\_omnilight3d
class\_openxrcompositionlayer class\_openxrcompositionlayercylinder
class\_openxrcompositionlayerequirect class\_openxrcompositionlayerquad
class\_openxrhand class\_openxrvisibilitymask class\_optionbutton
class\_panel class\_panelcontainer class\_parallax2d
class\_parallaxbackground class\_parallaxlayer class\_path2d
class\_path3d class\_pathfollow2d class\_pathfollow3d
class\_physicalbone2d class\_physicalbone3d
class\_physicalbonesimulator3d class\_physicsbody2d class\_physicsbody3d
class\_pinjoint2d class\_pinjoint3d class\_pointlight2d class\_polygon2d
class\_popup class\_popupmenu class\_popuppanel class\_progressbar
class\_range class\_raycast2d class\_raycast3d class\_referencerect
class\_reflectionprobe class\_remotetransform2d class\_remotetransform3d
class\_resourcepreloader class\_richtextlabel class\_rigidbody2d
class\_rigidbody3d class\_rootmotionview class\_scriptcreatedialog
class\_scripteditor class\_scripteditorbase class\_scrollbar
class\_scrollcontainer class\_separator class\_shaderglobalsoverride
class\_shapecast2d class\_shapecast3d class\_skeleton2d
class\_skeleton3d class\_skeletonik3d class\_skeletonmodifier3d
class\_slider class\_sliderjoint3d class\_softbody3d class\_spinbox
class\_splitcontainer class\_spotlight3d class\_springarm3d
class\_sprite2d class\_sprite3d class\_spritebase3d class\_staticbody2d
class\_staticbody3d class\_statusindicator class\_subviewport
class\_subviewportcontainer class\_tabbar class\_tabcontainer
class\_textedit class\_texturebutton class\_textureprogressbar
class\_texturerect class\_tilemap class\_tilemaplayer class\_timer
class\_touchscreenbutton class\_tree class\_vboxcontainer
class\_vehiclebody3d class\_vehiclewheel3d class\_vflowcontainer
class\_videostreamplayer class\_viewport class\_visibleonscreenenabler2d
class\_visibleonscreenenabler3d class\_visibleonscreennotifier2d
class\_visibleonscreennotifier3d class\_visualinstance3d class\_voxelgi
class\_vscrollbar class\_vseparator class\_vslider
class\_vsplitcontainer class\_window class\_worldenvironment
class\_xranchor3d class\_xrbodymodifier3d class\_xrcamera3d
class\_xrcontroller3d class\_xrfacemodifier3d class\_xrhandmodifier3d
class\_xrnode3d class\_xrorigin3d

# Resources

class\_resource class\_animatedtexture class\_animation
class\_animationlibrary class\_animationnode class\_animationnodeadd2
class\_animationnodeadd3 class\_animationnodeanimation
class\_animationnodeblend2 class\_animationnodeblend3
class\_animationnodeblendspace1d class\_animationnodeblendspace2d
class\_animationnodeblendtree class\_animationnodeoneshot
class\_animationnodeoutput class\_animationnodestatemachine
class\_animationnodestatemachineplayback
class\_animationnodestatemachinetransition class\_animationnodesub2
class\_animationnodesync class\_animationnodetimescale
class\_animationnodetimeseek class\_animationnodetransition
class\_animationrootnode class\_arraymesh class\_arrayoccluder3d
class\_atlastexture class\_audiobuslayout class\_audioeffect
class\_audioeffectamplify class\_audioeffectbandlimitfilter
class\_audioeffectbandpassfilter class\_audioeffectcapture
class\_audioeffectchorus class\_audioeffectcompressor
class\_audioeffectdelay class\_audioeffectdistortion
class\_audioeffecteq class\_audioeffecteq10 class\_audioeffecteq21
class\_audioeffecteq6 class\_audioeffectfilter
class\_audioeffecthardlimiter class\_audioeffecthighpassfilter
class\_audioeffecthighshelffilter class\_audioeffectlimiter
class\_audioeffectlowpassfilter class\_audioeffectlowshelffilter
class\_audioeffectnotchfilter class\_audioeffectpanner
class\_audioeffectphaser class\_audioeffectpitchshift
class\_audioeffectrecord class\_audioeffectreverb
class\_audioeffectspectrumanalyzer class\_audioeffectstereoenhance
class\_audiostream class\_audiostreamgenerator
class\_audiostreaminteractive class\_audiostreammicrophone
class\_audiostreammp3 class\_audiostreamoggvorbis
class\_audiostreamplaylist class\_audiostreampolyphonic
class\_audiostreamrandomizer class\_audiostreamsynchronized
class\_audiostreamwav class\_basematerial3d class\_bitmap class\_bonemap
class\_boxmesh class\_boxoccluder3d class\_boxshape3d class\_buttongroup
class\_cameraattributes class\_cameraattributesphysical
class\_cameraattributespractical class\_cameratexture
class\_canvasitemmaterial class\_canvastexture class\_capsulemesh
class\_capsuleshape2d class\_capsuleshape3d class\_circleshape2d
class\_codehighlighter class\_compositor class\_compositoreffect
class\_compressedcubemap class\_compressedcubemaparray
class\_compressedtexture2d class\_compressedtexture2darray
class\_compressedtexture3d class\_compressedtexturelayered
class\_concavepolygonshape2d class\_concavepolygonshape3d
class\_convexpolygonshape2d class\_convexpolygonshape3d class\_cryptokey
class\_csharpscript class\_cubemap class\_cubemaparray class\_curve
class\_curve2d class\_curve3d class\_curvetexture class\_curvexyztexture
class\_cylindermesh class\_cylindershape3d
class\_editornode3dgizmoplugin class\_editorsettings
class\_editorsyntaxhighlighter class\_environment class\_externaltexture
class\_fastnoiselite class\_fbxdocument class\_fbxstate
class\_fogmaterial class\_font class\_fontfile class\_fontvariation
class\_gdextension class\_gdscript class\_gdscriptsyntaxhighlighter
class\_gltfaccessor class\_gltfanimation class\_gltfbufferview
class\_gltfcamera class\_gltfdocument class\_gltfdocumentextension
class\_gltfdocumentextensionconvertimportermesh class\_gltflight
class\_gltfmesh class\_gltfnode class\_gltfphysicsbody
class\_gltfphysicsshape class\_gltfskeleton class\_gltfskin
class\_gltfspecgloss class\_gltfstate class\_gltftexture
class\_gltftexturesampler class\_gradient class\_gradienttexture1d
class\_gradienttexture2d class\_heightmapshape3d class\_image
class\_imagetexture class\_imagetexture3d class\_imagetexturelayered
class\_immediatemesh class\_importermesh class\_inputevent
class\_inputeventaction class\_inputeventfromwindow
class\_inputeventgesture class\_inputeventjoypadbutton
class\_inputeventjoypadmotion class\_inputeventkey
class\_inputeventmagnifygesture class\_inputeventmidi
class\_inputeventmouse class\_inputeventmousebutton
class\_inputeventmousemotion class\_inputeventpangesture
class\_inputeventscreendrag class\_inputeventscreentouch
class\_inputeventshortcut class\_inputeventwithmodifiers class\_json
class\_labelsettings class\_lightmapgidata class\_material class\_mesh
class\_meshlibrary class\_meshtexture class\_missingresource
class\_multimesh class\_navigationmesh
class\_navigationmeshsourcegeometrydata2d
class\_navigationmeshsourcegeometrydata3d class\_navigationpolygon
class\_noise class\_noisetexture2d class\_noisetexture3d
class\_occluder3d class\_occluderpolygon2d class\_oggpacketsequence
class\_openxraction class\_openxractionmap class\_openxractionset
class\_openxrinteractionprofile class\_openxripbinding
class\_optimizedtranslation class\_ormmaterial3d
class\_packeddatacontainer class\_packedscene class\_panoramaskymaterial
class\_particleprocessmaterial class\_physicalskymaterial
class\_physicsmaterial class\_placeholdercubemap
class\_placeholdercubemaparray class\_placeholdermaterial
class\_placeholdermesh class\_placeholdertexture2d
class\_placeholdertexture2darray class\_placeholdertexture3d
class\_placeholdertexturelayered class\_planemesh class\_pointmesh
class\_polygonoccluder3d class\_polygonpathfinder
class\_portablecompressedtexture2d class\_primitivemesh class\_prismmesh
class\_proceduralskymaterial class\_quadmesh class\_quadoccluder3d
class\_rdshaderfile class\_rdshaderspirv class\_rectangleshape2d
class\_ribbontrailmesh class\_richtexteffect
class\_scenereplicationconfig class\_script class\_scriptextension
class\_segmentshape2d class\_separationrayshape2d
class\_separationrayshape3d class\_shader class\_shaderinclude
class\_shadermaterial class\_shape2d class\_shape3d class\_shortcut
class\_skeletonmodification2d class\_skeletonmodification2dccdik
class\_skeletonmodification2dfabrik class\_skeletonmodification2djiggle
class\_skeletonmodification2dlookat
class\_skeletonmodification2dphysicalbones
class\_skeletonmodification2dstackholder
class\_skeletonmodification2dtwoboneik
class\_skeletonmodificationstack2d class\_skeletonprofile
class\_skeletonprofilehumanoid class\_skin class\_sky class\_spheremesh
class\_sphereoccluder3d class\_sphereshape3d class\_spriteframes
class\_standardmaterial3d class\_stylebox class\_styleboxempty
class\_styleboxflat class\_styleboxline class\_styleboxtexture
class\_syntaxhighlighter class\_systemfont class\_textmesh
class\_texture class\_texture2d class\_texture2darray
class\_texture2darrayrd class\_texture2drd class\_texture3d
class\_texture3drd class\_texturecubemaparrayrd class\_texturecubemaprd
class\_texturelayered class\_texturelayeredrd class\_theme
class\_tilemappattern class\_tileset class\_tilesetatlassource
class\_tilesetscenescollectionsource class\_tilesetsource
class\_torusmesh class\_translation class\_tubetrailmesh
class\_videostream class\_videostreamplayback class\_videostreamtheora
class\_viewporttexture class\_visualshader class\_visualshadernode
class\_visualshadernodebillboard class\_visualshadernodebooleanconstant
class\_visualshadernodebooleanparameter class\_visualshadernodeclamp
class\_visualshadernodecolorconstant class\_visualshadernodecolorfunc
class\_visualshadernodecolorop class\_visualshadernodecolorparameter
class\_visualshadernodecomment class\_visualshadernodecompare
class\_visualshadernodeconstant class\_visualshadernodecubemap
class\_visualshadernodecubemapparameter
class\_visualshadernodecurvetexture
class\_visualshadernodecurvexyztexture class\_visualshadernodecustom
class\_visualshadernodederivativefunc class\_visualshadernodedeterminant
class\_visualshadernodedistancefade class\_visualshadernodedotproduct
class\_visualshadernodeexpression class\_visualshadernodefaceforward
class\_visualshadernodefloatconstant class\_visualshadernodefloatfunc
class\_visualshadernodefloatop class\_visualshadernodefloatparameter
class\_visualshadernodeframe class\_visualshadernodefresnel
class\_visualshadernodeglobalexpression class\_visualshadernodegroupbase
class\_visualshadernodeif class\_visualshadernodeinput
class\_visualshadernodeintconstant class\_visualshadernodeintfunc
class\_visualshadernodeintop class\_visualshadernodeintparameter
class\_visualshadernodeis class\_visualshadernodelinearscenedepth
class\_visualshadernodemix class\_visualshadernodemultiplyadd
class\_visualshadernodeouterproduct class\_visualshadernodeoutput
class\_visualshadernodeparameter class\_visualshadernodeparameterref
class\_visualshadernodeparticleaccelerator
class\_visualshadernodeparticleboxemitter
class\_visualshadernodeparticleconevelocity
class\_visualshadernodeparticleemit
class\_visualshadernodeparticleemitter
class\_visualshadernodeparticlemeshemitter
class\_visualshadernodeparticlemultiplybyaxisangle
class\_visualshadernodeparticleoutput
class\_visualshadernodeparticlerandomness
class\_visualshadernodeparticleringemitter
class\_visualshadernodeparticlesphereemitter
class\_visualshadernodeproximityfade class\_visualshadernoderandomrange
class\_visualshadernoderemap class\_visualshadernodereroute
class\_visualshadernoderesizablebase
class\_visualshadernoderotationbyaxis class\_visualshadernodesample3d
class\_visualshadernodescreennormalworldspace
class\_visualshadernodescreenuvtosdf class\_visualshadernodesdfraymarch
class\_visualshadernodesdftoscreenuv class\_visualshadernodesmoothstep
class\_visualshadernodestep class\_visualshadernodeswitch
class\_visualshadernodetexture class\_visualshadernodetexture2darray
class\_visualshadernodetexture2darrayparameter
class\_visualshadernodetexture2dparameter
class\_visualshadernodetexture3d
class\_visualshadernodetexture3dparameter
class\_visualshadernodetextureparameter
class\_visualshadernodetextureparametertriplanar
class\_visualshadernodetexturesdf
class\_visualshadernodetexturesdfnormal
class\_visualshadernodetransformcompose
class\_visualshadernodetransformconstant
class\_visualshadernodetransformdecompose
class\_visualshadernodetransformfunc class\_visualshadernodetransformop
class\_visualshadernodetransformparameter
class\_visualshadernodetransformvecmult
class\_visualshadernodeuintconstant class\_visualshadernodeuintfunc
class\_visualshadernodeuintop class\_visualshadernodeuintparameter
class\_visualshadernodeuvfunc class\_visualshadernodeuvpolarcoord
class\_visualshadernodevarying class\_visualshadernodevaryinggetter
class\_visualshadernodevaryingsetter class\_visualshadernodevec2constant
class\_visualshadernodevec2parameter class\_visualshadernodevec3constant
class\_visualshadernodevec3parameter class\_visualshadernodevec4constant
class\_visualshadernodevec4parameter class\_visualshadernodevectorbase
class\_visualshadernodevectorcompose
class\_visualshadernodevectordecompose
class\_visualshadernodevectordistance class\_visualshadernodevectorfunc
class\_visualshadernodevectorlen class\_visualshadernodevectorop
class\_visualshadernodevectorrefract
class\_visualshadernodeworldpositionfromdepth class\_voxelgidata
class\_world2d class\_world3d class\_worldboundaryshape2d
class\_worldboundaryshape3d class\_x509certificate

# Other objects

class\_object class\_aescontext class\_astar2d class\_astar3d
class\_astargrid2d class\_audioeffectinstance
class\_audioeffectspectrumanalyzerinstance class\_audiosample
class\_audiosampleplayback class\_audioserver
class\_audiostreamgeneratorplayback class\_audiostreamplayback
class\_audiostreamplaybackinteractive
class\_audiostreamplaybackoggvorbis class\_audiostreamplaybackplaylist
class\_audiostreamplaybackpolyphonic class\_audiostreamplaybackresampled
class\_audiostreamplaybacksynchronized class\_callbacktweener
class\_camerafeed class\_cameraserver class\_charfxtransform
class\_classdb class\_configfile class\_crypto class\_diraccess
class\_displayserver class\_dtlsserver class\_editorcontextmenuplugin
class\_editordebuggerplugin class\_editordebuggersession
class\_editorexportplatform class\_editorexportplatformandroid
class\_editorexportplatformextension class\_editorexportplatformios
class\_editorexportplatformlinuxbsd class\_editorexportplatformmacos
class\_editorexportplatformpc class\_editorexportplatformweb
class\_editorexportplatformwindows class\_editorexportplugin
class\_editorexportpreset class\_editorfeatureprofile
class\_editorfilesystemdirectory
class\_editorfilesystemimportformatsupportquery
class\_editorimportplugin class\_editorinspectorplugin
class\_editorinterface class\_editornode3dgizmo class\_editorpaths
class\_editorresourceconversionplugin
class\_editorresourcepreviewgenerator class\_editorresourcetooltipplugin
class\_editorsceneformatimporter class\_editorsceneformatimporterblend
class\_editorsceneformatimporterfbx2gltf
class\_editorsceneformatimportergltf
class\_editorsceneformatimporterufbx class\_editorscenepostimport
class\_editorscenepostimportplugin class\_editorscript
class\_editorselection class\_editortranslationparserplugin
class\_editorundoredomanager class\_editorvcsinterface
class\_encodedobjectasid class\_enetconnection
class\_enetmultiplayerpeer class\_enetpacketpeer class\_engine
class\_enginedebugger class\_engineprofiler class\_expression
class\_fileaccess class\_framebuffercacherd class\_gdextensionmanager
class\_geometry2d class\_geometry3d class\_hashingcontext
class\_hmaccontext class\_httpclient class\_imageformatloader
class\_imageformatloaderextension class\_input class\_inputmap
class\_intervaltweener class\_ip class\_javaclass
class\_javaclasswrapper class\_javaobject class\_javascriptbridge
class\_javascriptobject class\_jnisingleton class\_jsonrpc
class\_kinematiccollision2d class\_kinematiccollision3d
class\_lightmapper class\_lightmapperrd class\_mainloop class\_marshalls
class\_meshconvexdecompositionsettings class\_meshdatatool
class\_methodtweener class\_mobilevrinterface class\_moviewriter
class\_multiplayerapi class\_multiplayerapiextension
class\_multiplayerpeer class\_multiplayerpeerextension class\_mutex
class\_nativemenu class\_navigationmeshgenerator
class\_navigationpathqueryparameters2d
class\_navigationpathqueryparameters3d
class\_navigationpathqueryresult2d class\_navigationpathqueryresult3d
class\_navigationserver2d class\_navigationserver3d class\_node
class\_node3dgizmo class\_offlinemultiplayerpeer
class\_oggpacketsequenceplayback class\_openxrapiextension
class\_openxrextensionwrapperextension
class\_openxrinteractionprofilemetadata class\_openxrinterface class\_os
class\_packeddatacontainerref class\_packetpeer class\_packetpeerdtls
class\_packetpeerextension class\_packetpeerstream class\_packetpeerudp
class\_pckpacker class\_performance class\_physicsdirectbodystate2d
class\_physicsdirectbodystate2dextension class\_physicsdirectbodystate3d
class\_physicsdirectbodystate3dextension
class\_physicsdirectspacestate2d
class\_physicsdirectspacestate2dextension
class\_physicsdirectspacestate3d
class\_physicsdirectspacestate3dextension
class\_physicspointqueryparameters2d
class\_physicspointqueryparameters3d class\_physicsrayqueryparameters2d
class\_physicsrayqueryparameters3d class\_physicsserver2d
class\_physicsserver2dextension class\_physicsserver2dmanager
class\_physicsserver3d class\_physicsserver3dextension
class\_physicsserver3dmanager
class\_physicsserver3drenderingserverhandler
class\_physicsshapequeryparameters2d
class\_physicsshapequeryparameters3d
class\_physicstestmotionparameters2d
class\_physicstestmotionparameters3d class\_physicstestmotionresult2d
class\_physicstestmotionresult3d class\_projectsettings
class\_propertytweener class\_randomnumbergenerator
class\_rdattachmentformat class\_rdframebufferpass
class\_rdpipelinecolorblendstate
class\_rdpipelinecolorblendstateattachment
class\_rdpipelinedepthstencilstate class\_rdpipelinemultisamplestate
class\_rdpipelinerasterizationstate
class\_rdpipelinespecializationconstant class\_rdsamplerstate
class\_rdshadersource class\_rdtextureformat class\_rdtextureview
class\_rduniform class\_rdvertexattribute class\_refcounted class\_regex
class\_regexmatch class\_renderdata class\_renderdataextension
class\_renderdatard class\_renderingdevice class\_renderingserver
class\_renderscenebuffers class\_renderscenebuffersconfiguration
class\_renderscenebuffersextension class\_renderscenebuffersrd
class\_renderscenedata class\_renderscenedataextension
class\_renderscenedatard class\_resource class\_resourceformatloader
class\_resourceformatsaver class\_resourceimporter
class\_resourceimporterbitmap class\_resourceimporterbmfont
class\_resourceimportercsvtranslation class\_resourceimporterdynamicfont
class\_resourceimporterimage class\_resourceimporterimagefont
class\_resourceimporterlayeredtexture class\_resourceimportermp3
class\_resourceimporterobj class\_resourceimporteroggvorbis
class\_resourceimporterscene class\_resourceimportershaderfile
class\_resourceimportertexture class\_resourceimportertextureatlas
class\_resourceimporterwav class\_resourceloader class\_resourcesaver
class\_resourceuid class\_scenemultiplayer class\_scenestate
class\_scenetree class\_scenetreetimer class\_scriptlanguage
class\_scriptlanguageextension class\_semaphore class\_skinreference
class\_streampeer class\_streampeerbuffer class\_streampeerextension
class\_streampeergzip class\_streampeertcp class\_streampeertls
class\_surfacetool class\_tcpserver class\_textline class\_textparagraph
class\_textserver class\_textserveradvanced class\_textserverdummy
class\_textserverextension class\_textserverfallback
class\_textservermanager class\_themedb class\_thread class\_tiledata
class\_time class\_tlsoptions class\_translationdomain
class\_translationserver class\_treeitem class\_trianglemesh
class\_tween class\_tweener class\_udpserver class\_undoredo
class\_uniformsetcacherd class\_upnp class\_upnpdevice class\_weakref
class\_webrtcdatachannel class\_webrtcdatachannelextension
class\_webrtcmultiplayerpeer class\_webrtcpeerconnection
class\_webrtcpeerconnectionextension class\_websocketmultiplayerpeer
class\_websocketpeer class\_webxrinterface class\_workerthreadpool
class\_xmlparser class\_xrbodytracker class\_xrcontrollertracker
class\_xrfacetracker class\_xrhandtracker class\_xrinterface
class\_xrinterfaceextension class\_xrpose class\_xrpositionaltracker
class\_xrserver class\_xrtracker class\_xrvrs class\_zippacker
class\_zipreader

# Editor-only

class\_editorcommandpalette class\_editorcontextmenuplugin
class\_editordebuggerplugin class\_editordebuggersession
class\_editorexportplatform class\_editorexportplatformandroid
class\_editorexportplatformextension class\_editorexportplatformios
class\_editorexportplatformlinuxbsd class\_editorexportplatformmacos
class\_editorexportplatformpc class\_editorexportplatformweb
class\_editorexportplatformwindows class\_editorexportplugin
class\_editorexportpreset class\_editorfeatureprofile
class\_editorfiledialog class\_editorfilesystem
class\_editorfilesystemdirectory
class\_editorfilesystemimportformatsupportquery
class\_editorimportplugin class\_editorinspector
class\_editorinspectorplugin class\_editorinterface
class\_editornode3dgizmo class\_editornode3dgizmoplugin
class\_editorpaths class\_editorplugin class\_editorproperty
class\_editorresourceconversionplugin class\_editorresourcepicker
class\_editorresourcepreview class\_editorresourcepreviewgenerator
class\_editorresourcetooltipplugin class\_editorsceneformatimporter
class\_editorsceneformatimporterblend
class\_editorsceneformatimporterfbx2gltf
class\_editorsceneformatimportergltf
class\_editorsceneformatimporterufbx class\_editorscenepostimport
class\_editorscenepostimportplugin class\_editorscript
class\_editorscriptpicker class\_editorselection class\_editorsettings
class\_editorspinslider class\_editorsyntaxhighlighter
class\_editortranslationparserplugin class\_editorundoredomanager
class\_editorvcsinterface class\_filesystemdock
class\_scriptcreatedialog class\_scripteditor class\_scripteditorbase

# Variant types

class\_variant class\_aabb class\_array class\_basis class\_bool
class\_callable class\_color class\_dictionary class\_float class\_int
class\_nodepath class\_object class\_packedbytearray
class\_packedcolorarray class\_packedfloat32array
class\_packedfloat64array class\_packedint32array
class\_packedint64array class\_packedstringarray
class\_packedvector2array class\_packedvector3array
class\_packedvector4array class\_plane class\_projection
class\_quaternion class\_rect2 class\_rect2i class\_rid class\_signal
class\_string class\_stringname class\_transform2d class\_transform3d
class\_vector2 class\_vector2i class\_vector3 class\_vector3i
class\_vector4 class\_vector4i
